Add JWT authn/authz lab (#13)
tetrateio/dmz-workshop: 10-JWT/README.md

# Overview

In the previous Security lab, we focused on perimeter security and configured policies to restrict access based on the Workspace.

> In this lab we will secure the public ingress and enforce user authentication so that only properly authenticated users taht have the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab we will secure the public ingress and enforce user authentication so that only properly authenticated users that have the
```

## Export the user ID that will be used in access policies

In the different access policies we'll be applying, we will be enforcing a particular Subject in the JWT token. The Identity Provider generates tokens with the UUID of the user in the `sub` claim, so before starting this lab, let's make sure we have the right value for our user exported in the `$TCTL_USERID` environment variable:

```bash
source 10-JWT/set-userid.sh
```

## Configuring User AuthN/Z for Secure App(s)

Our application ingress for the secure applications does not contain any policy for user authentication or authorization (AuthN/Z).  Within TSB establishing this policy is an easy task.  First, ensure you have set an environment variable in the shell you are using named `PREFIX`.  You will also want to ensure that your `tctl` CLI is targeted and logged into the TSB management plane.

1.  Configure the `IngressGateway` for `secure.public.$PREFIX.cloud.zwickey.net` with `authentication` and `authorization` settings to enforce JWT validation and rules based on the token claims using `tctl apply`:

```bash
envsubst < 10-JWT/01-tsb-cloud-west-jwt.yaml | tctl apply -f -   
``` 

> Inspect the file `10-JWT/01-tsb-cloud-west-jwt`.  The important pieces areis the `authentication` and `authorization` sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inspect the file `10-JWT/01-tsb-cloud-west-jwt`.  The important pieces are in the `authentication` and `authorization` sections:
```

```yaml
authentication:
  jwt:
    issuer: "https://keycloak.demo.zwickey.net/auth/realms/tetrate"
    jwksUri: "https://keycloak.demo.zwickey.net/auth/realms/tetrate/protocol/openid-connect/certs"
authorization:
  local:
    rules:
      - name: only-$PREFIX
        from:
          - jwt:
              sub: "$TCTL_USERID"
              iss: "https://keycloak.demo.zwickey.net/auth/realms/tetrate"
        to:
          - paths: ["*"]
```

> In the `authentication` section we are configuring how JWT tokens are coing to be validated. There we configure the issuer for the tokens and the keystore with the keys to be used to validate the token signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `authentication` section we are configuring how JWT tokens are going to be validated. There we configure the issuer for the tokens and the keystore with the keys to be used to validate the token signature.
```

In the `authorization` section we configure the AuthZ rules we want to apply to incoming traffic. In this example we will:

* Enforce the configured rule for all requests (`paths: ["*"]`).
* Require tokens to be issued by the configured issuer.

> * Require the `sub` claim in the token to have teh value of `$TCTL_USERID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Require the `sub` claim in the token to have the value of `$TCTL_USERID`.
```

{
  "exp": 1632388238,
  "iat": 1632387938,
  "jti": "a1d424c1-5c28-424d-87f7-1467c4b80da3",
  "iss": "https://keycloak.demo.zwickey.net/auth/realms/tetrate",
  "sub": "b635c4c6-f620-4846-9501-dfe554f6b4c5",
  "typ": "Bearer",
  "azp": "account-token",
  "session_state": "315b77c6-6fd0-44a9-90c0-a18cc58192ec",
  "acr": "1",
  "scope": "profile email",
  "email_verified": false,
  "name": "nacx nacx",
  "preferred_username": "nacx",
  "given_name": "nacx",
  "family_name": "nacx",
  "email": "nacx@tetrate.io"
}
```

Now you can try access the Secure application again, by sending the `$JWT_TOKEN` in the Authorization header. We can do this with a `curl` command:

```bash
curl -k https://secure.public.${PREFIX}.cloud.zwickey.net -H "Authorization: Bearer ${JWT_TOKEN}"
```

You will see the HTML contents of the Secure App frontend. If instead you see a `token expired` error, you can run again the `source 10-JWT/get-token.sh` to get a new token.

## Enforcing access with additional claims

Now we have seen how the user has been validated, let's see how we can enforce additional constraints based on token claims.

### Checking what happens when additional claims are not met

> We will apply a policy that requires the token to contain a `group: admins` claim. The tokens issued for our user do not contain that claim, so access should be deined after applying the policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will apply a policy that requires the token to contain a `group: admins` claim. The tokens issued for our user do not contain that claim, so access should be denied after applying the policy.
```

```bash
envsubst < 10-JWT/02-tsb-cloud-west-jwt-claims-fail.yaml | tctl apply -f -   
```

> The important parts of the new policy is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The important part of the new policy is the following:
```

```yaml
rules:
- name: only-$PREFIX
    from:
    - jwt:
        sub: "$TCTL_USERID"
        iss: "https://keycloak.demo.zwickey.net/auth/realms/tetrate"
        other:
          group: admins
    to:
    - paths: ["*"]
```

> Note the presence of the `other` element. It allows setting other claims to be required in the JWT tokens that are not necessary well-known JWT claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the presence of the `other` element. It allows setting other claims to be required in the JWT tokens that are not necessarily well-known JWT claims.
```

> Wait a few seconds until the changes tot he policy have propagated, and inspect the contents of the policy again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait a few seconds until the changes to the policy have propagated, and inspect the contents of the policy again:
```

```bash
kubectl --context public-west -n $PREFIX-demo-secure get authorizationpolicy secure-gateway-mesh-external -o yaml
```

You will see the JWT rule has a new condition that will enforce the presence of the configured claim for all incoming requests.

```yaml
when:
- key: request.auth.claims[group]
  values:
  - admins
```

Let's try accessing the app again:

```bash
curl -k https://secure.public.${PREFIX}.cloud.zwickey.net -H "Authorization: Bearer ${JWT_TOKEN}"
```

We should see again the access denied error:
```
RBAC: access denied
```

### Configuring additional claims present in the JWT token

Now let's configure a policy with a claim that actually exists in the token, such as the `preferred_user` one:

```bash
envsubst < 10-JWT/03-tsb-cloud-west-jwt-claims-ok.yaml | tctl apply -f -   
```

> Wait a few seconds until the changes tot he policy have propagated, and inspect the contents of the policy again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait a few seconds until the changes to the policy have propagated, and inspect the contents of the policy again:
```

```bash
kubectl --context public-west -n $PREFIX-demo-secure get authorizationpolicy secure-gateway-mesh-external -o yaml
```

You will see the JWT rule has a new condition that will enforce the presence of the configured claim for all incoming requests.

```yaml
when:
- key: request.auth.claims[preferred_username]
  values:
  - $PREFIX
```

Let's try accessing the app again:

```bash
curl -k https://secure.public.${PREFIX}.cloud.zwickey.net -H "Authorization: Bearer ${JWT_TOKEN}"
```

You will see again the HTML contents of the Secure App frontend.

## Cleanup

> Finally, let's remove the JWT policy to leave teh Secure App endpoing accessible for other Labs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, let's remove the JWT policy to leave the Secure App endpoint accessible for other Labs:
```
